# Introduction {.unnumbered}

This Technical Specification (TS) present version 3.0 of the Icelandic Online Banking Services (IOBWS), for domestic payments and deposits.

Previous versions of IOBWS, released in 2007 and 2013 respectively, used the most recent OASIS SOAP standards at the time, to define common web service interfaces for the Icelandic the commercial and savings banks. This enabled software vendors, enterprises and service providers to integrate their accounting, payment, and information systems with the bank's services, to act on behalf of the customers and with full access to their data.

Iceland, with its homogeneous financial infrastructure based on the centralized Banks' Data Centre (Reiknistofa bankanna, or RB), has enjoyed real-time gross settlements and instant credit transfers nationwide since 1987. Other universally accepted services count the common collection solution (Kröfupotturinn) for issuing and paying claims, topping up creditcards, or A/B Giro. All this functionality has been available through IOBWS v1 and v2, comparable to the functionality enjoyed by users of the online banking Web UIs.

When initiating work on the previous versions, the participants in the TN-FMÞ reviewed existing and emerging specifications in the global or mostly European financial industry. None were deemed a good fit at the time for local adaptation, as they reflected inherent the legacy in inter-bank communications outside of Iceland, even in the case of the other Nordic countries. Therefore v1 and v2 of IOBWS were somewhat specific to the current functionality available in the underlying RB systems.

Meanwhile, the broader market especially in Europe has been catching up, and the Icelandic banks' have migrated to new core banking systems that make adopting specifications based on or compatable with technology standard such as ISO 20022, both feasible and desirable. The Open Banking regulation in UK and the PSD2 regulation issued by the European Parliment gave rise to initiatives to standardize access to payment functionality and account information, on behalf of customers by third parties. One such effort, the NextGenPSD2 Framework developed by the Berlin Group, has met a broad acceptance in the EEA. The data model references ISO 20022, and is close enough to where the Icelandic market is evolving as to make it a relatively straightforward to adapt IOBWS to use it as a base, instead of continuing to maintain an independant linage of API specifications. 

Another goal with v3 that is achieved by adopting the NextGenPSD2 Framework, is the transition from SOAP to a REST-like API, defined by a recent version of the [Open API Specification](TODO: REFERENCE IN TERMS), with support for newer, open authentication and authorization standards, that hopefully solve some of the complexity involved with previous incarnations of the IOBWS.